# voiceActivatedPersonalAssistant

A project to build an AI voice assistant using Python. The Voice assistant interacts with humans to perform basic tasks.


### About E Forty One:

E Forty One is an AI personal voice assistant service built using Pychram. It can understand human speech and perform basic tasks designed by the client.

When the user specifies the appropriate trigger words, the E Forty One gets activated and executes the user's commands.

E Forty One AI Voice assistant:"Loading your personal Assistant G-One....
                          Hello, Good Morning" (Greets the user according to time)


### The implemented Voice assistant can perform the following tasks:


1. Opens a wepage : Youtube , G-Mail , Google Chrome , StackOverflow 
	
		Human : Hey E Forty One, Open Youtube
		
		
2. Predicts time 
	
	
		Human : Hey E Forty One, What is the time?
		
		
3.Fetch Top headlines from Times of India
	
         
		Human:Hey E Forty One, what's the latest news?
		
		
4. Captures a photo
	
  		
		Human:Hey E Forty One, Take a photo
		
		
5. Searches data from web
	
   		
		Human: Hey E Forty One, Search Butterfly images from web
		
		
6. Ask geographical and computational questions
	
  	 	
		Human: Hey E Forty One, What is the capital of California? / Hey E Forty One what is Sin 90?
		
		
7. Predict Weather of different Cities
   		
	
		Human: Hey E Forty One, What is the weather likely now in Kerala?
		
	
8. Abstarct necessary information from wikipedia
	
   		
		Human: Hey E Forty One, Who is Bill Gates according to Wikipedia?
		
		The voice assistant then abstarcts the first 3 lines of wikipedia and gives the information to the user.
	
	
9. Ask E Forty One about what task it can perform and who created it
	
	  	Human: Hey E Forty One, Who created you? / Hey E Forty One, What can you do?
		
		
10.Turn off your pc when required
   		
   		 Human: Hey E Forty One, Please turn off my PC

### Libraries required to be installed using Pip Command:
	
	1.Json
	
	2.request
	
	3.Speech recognition
	
 	4.Pyttsx3
	
	5.Wikipedia
	
	6.Ecapture
	
	7.time
	
	8.Wolfram Alpha


### In-Built libraries required to be imported:

	1.os
	
	2.datetime
	
	3.web browser
	
	4.subprocess



E Forty One uses Third party API's to predict weather in different cities and to ask computational and geographical questions. 
Free API keys can be generated by creating an account in the following applications.  
	
	Open Weather Map - To forecast weather
	
	WolframAlpha - To answer questions
